# Zendro Command Line Interface (CLI)
## Introduction
A CLI for ScienceDbStarterPack.

## Commands
### zendro new <your_application_name>
Start a new application:
1. copy starter pack to folder <your_application_name>
2. clone `single-page-app` & `graphql-server` & `graphiql-auth` repositories from GitHub (version: see `zendro_dependencies.json`)
3. install packages for each repository
4. copy seeders to graphql-server and create templates of environment variables for each repository
5. **-d** or **--dockerize**: keep Dockerfiles (default: false). Set to be true, keep Dockerfiles. Default: remove Dockerfiles and initUserDb.sh
6. a welcome interface
7. hints: edit config files if necessary
* without docker setup: ./graphql-server/config/data_models_storage_config.json
* with docker setup: ./config/data_models_storage_config.json
* ./graphql-server/.env
* SPA in development mode: ./single-page-app/.env.development
* SPA in production mode: ./single-page-app/.env.production
* ./graphiql-auth/.env

### zendro generate-gqs
Generate code for graphql-server.
1. **-f** or **--data_model_definitions**: input directory or a JSON file (default: current directory path + "/data_model_definitions")
2. **-o** or **--output_dir**: output directory (default: current directory path + "/graphql_server")
3. **-m** or **--migrations**: generate migrations (default: false). Set to be true, generate migrations
4. allow unknown options

### zendro dockerize 
Dockerize Zendro App with example docker files.
1. **-u** or **--up**: start docker service
* set the host of Postgres as sdb_postgres
2. **-d** or **--down**: stop docker service
3. **-p** or **--production**: start or stop SPA with production mode

### zendro start [service...]
Start Zendro service.
1. default: start all service
2. **-p** or **--production**: start SPA with production mode
3. start specified service with the following abbreviations:
* gqs: graphql-server
* spa: single-page-app
* giql:graphiql

### zendro stop [service…]
Stop Zendro service.
1. default: stop all service
2. **-p** or **--production**: stop SPA with production mode
3. stop specified service with abbreviations

## A Running Example
1. create a new application (**test**). Keep docker files (**-d**) by executing  __`zendro new -d test`__. If you want to modify some environment variables, please edit relevant files, which are also specified in the console.
* without docker setup: ./graphql-server/config/data_models_storage_config.json
* with docker setup: ./config/data_models_storage_config.json
* ./graphql-server/.env
* SPA in development mode: ./single-page-app/.env.development
* SPA in production mode: ./single-page-app/.env.production
* ./graphiql-auth/.env
  
2. __cd test__

3. add JSON files for model definitions in `./data_model_definitions` folder and generate graphql-server code and migrations by executing __`zendro generate-gqs -m`__

4. start all service by executing **`zendro start`**. Default database would be a local Postgres database. Its configuration is in this file: `./graphql-server/config/data_models_storage_config.json`. If user would like to add other storage types, it is necessary to edit this file. Meanwhile, if you would like to use SPA with production mode, please add `-p` option.
   
5. stop all running service by executing **`zendro stop`**. Besides, if you would like to stop SPA with production mode, please add `-p` option.

6. If you don't have local database, you can play with Zendro by dockerizing example Zendro App. The command would be **`zendro dockerize -u`**. Moreover, if you would like to use SPA with production mode, please execute **`zendro dockerize -u -p`**. Besides, the default username is `admin@zen.dro` and the corresponding password is `admin`. 

7. When you want to stop docker service, press CTRL+C once, then execute **`zendro dockerize -d`**. In addition, if your SPA is in production mode, please execute **`zendro dockerize -d -p`**. 

## Contributions
Zendro is the product of a joint effort between the Forschungszentrum Jülich, Germany and the Comisión Nacional para el Conocimiento y Uso de la Biodiversidad, México, to generate a tool that allows efficiently building data warehouses capable of dealing with diverse data generated by different research groups in the context of the FAIR principles and multidisciplinary projects. The name Zendro comes from the words Zenzontle and Drossel, which are Mexican and German words denoting a mockingbird, a bird capable of “talking” different languages, similar to how Zendro can connect your data warehouse from any programming language or data analysis pipeline.

### Zendro contributors in alphabetical order
Francisca Acevedo<sup>1</sup>, Vicente Arriaga<sup>1</sup>, Katja Dohm<sup>3</sup>, Constantin Eiteneuer<sup>2</sup>, Sven Fahrner<sup>2</sup>, Frank Fischer<sup>4</sup>, Asis Hallab<sup>2</sup>, Alicia Mastretta-Yanes<sup>1</sup>, Roland Pieruschka<sup>2</sup>, Alejandro Ponce<sup>1</sup>, Yaxal Ponce<sup>2</sup>, Francisco Ramírez<sup>1</sup>, Irene Ramos<sup>1</sup>, Bernardo Terroba<sup>1</sup>, Tim Rehberg<sup>3</sup>, Verónica Suaste<sup>1</sup>, Björn Usadel<sup>2</sup>, David Velasco<sup>2</sup>, Thomas Voecking<sup>3</sup>, Dan Wang<sup>2</sup>

#### Author affiliations
1. CONABIO - Comisión Nacional para el Conocimiento y Uso de la Biodiversidad, México
2. Forschungszentrum Jülich - Germany
3. auticon - www.auticon.com
4. InterTech - www.intertech.de

### Zendro author contributions
Asis Hallab and Alicia Mastretta-Yanes coordinated the project. Asis Hallab designed the software. Programming of code generators, the browser based single page application interface, and the GraphQL application programming interface was done by Katja Dohm, Constantin Eiteneuer, Francisco Ramírez, Tim Rehberg, Veronica Suaste, David Velasco, Thomas Voecking, and Dan Wang. Counselling and use case definitions were contributed by Francisca Acevedo, Vicente Arriaga, Frank Fischer, Roland Pieruschka, Alejandro Ponce, Irene Ramos, and Björn Usadel. User experience and application of Zendro on data management projects was carried out by Asis Hallab, Alicia Mastretta-Yanes, Yaxal Ponce, Irene Ramos, Verónica Suaste, and David Velasco. Logo design was made by Bernardo Terroba.
